[BLOG] Write Prompt Leakage Probing blogpost (#109)
ag2ai/ag2: website/blog/2024-11-27-Prompt-Leakage-Probing/index.mdx

---

> title: Testing for prompt leakage security using Autogen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Agentic testing for prompt leakage security
```

authors:
  - sternakt
  - davorrunje
  - sonichi
tags: [LLM, security]
---

> 

Reviewer: A figure inserted here would increase the readers' interest.

Author: Done :)

### Prompt Leakage Testing in Action

#### Tested Models and Endpoints

Our framework currently supports three predefined testing endpoints, tailored for different levels of challenge:

| **Endpoint**   | **Model Description**                                                                                          |
|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `/low`         | Easy: Uses a basic prompt without any hardening techniques. No canary words are included, and no LLM guardrail is applied. |
| `/medium`      | Medium: Applies prompt hardening techniques to improve robustness over the easy model but still lacks canary words or guardrail. |

> | `/high`        | Hard: Combines prompt hardening with the addition of canary words and the use of a guardrail for better protection. |

Reviewer: It'll be nice to clarify whether these are different endpoints for a testing service or models to test. By reading the current description, I don't have a clear idea. The section header and "The user of a guardrail" looks like it's on the model service provider side. Then, I don't understand why "Our framework currently supports three predefined testing endpoints". If the framework is supposed to support all the endpoints, and these 3 are just examples, then it makes sense.

Author: Added additional explanation:
"These endpoints are part of the application and serve as abstractions to streamline prompt leakage testing. The models configured behind these endpoints are defined in the tested_chatbots module and can be easily modified.

By separating the tested models from the chat interface, we have prepared the abstraction necessary to support the integration of external endpoints in future iterations, allowing seamless testing of custom or third-party models."

2. [`PromptLeakageClassifierAgent`](https://github.com/airtai/prompt-leakage-probing/blob/efe9c286236e92c4f6366daa60da2282add3ca95/prompt_leakage_probing/workflow/agents/prompt_leakage_classifier/prompt_leakage_classifier.py#L7): Once a response is received from the LLM, this agent evaluates the response to determine if any context leakage has occurred. It analyzes the output for any signs of the model inadvertently exposing sensitive prompt information. Based on this classification, the agent assigns a leakage level to the response.

3. **Testing Scenarios**: The framework currently includes two testing scenarios designed to demonstrate its capabilities: a simple attack targeting basic leakage and an advanced strategy utilizing Base64 encoding to bypass direct attack detection. These serve as a foundation for the future implementation of a wider variety of scenarios.

> 4. **Ready to use chat**: The framework is built using [FastAgency](https://fastagency.ai/latest/) and [AG2](https://ag2.ai/), enabling users to seamlessly trigger tests and access reports through an intuitive chat interface. [FastAgency](https://fastagency.ai/latest/) operates on [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/), and the service includes demonstration test Agents accessible via the `/low`, `/medium`, and `/high` endpoints. This setup functions as a ready-to-use testing lab, designed to help you get started with ease!

Author: Reworded to:
"Demonstration agents are accessible through the `/low`, `/medium`, and `/high` endpoints, creating a ready-to-use testing lab for exploring prompt leakage security."

The entire system is designed to be flexible, enabling users to create custom scenarios, add new agents, or modify existing tests to suit their needs. This modularity makes it easy to adapt the framework to various use cases and LLMs.

> 

Reviewer: Could you briefly mention which agentic design patterns are used in this project? For example, which pages in https://ag2ai.github.io/ag2/docs/tutorial or https://ag2ai.github.io/ag2/docs/topics are relevant? So that we can provide links to the relevant docs.

Author: Rewoked the project highlights chapter and referenced Group chat, custom speaker selection, ConversableAgent and UserProxyAgent

### Next Steps

While the **Prompt Leakage Probing Framework** is functional and ready to use, there are several ways it can be expanded:

- **Additional Attacks**: The framework currently includes simple and Base64 attacks. Future work will involve implementing more sophisticated attacks, such as prompt injection via external plugins or context manipulation.

- **Model Customization**: Support for testing additional types of LLMs or integrating with different platforms could be explored, enabling broader use.

### Conclusion

The **Prompt Leakage Probing Framework** provides a tool to help test LLM agents for their vulnerability to prompt leakage, ensuring that sensitive information embedded in system prompts remains secure. By automating the probing and classification process, this framework simplifies the detection of potential security risks in LLMs.

## Further reading

> Please refer to our [codebase](https://github.com/airtai/prompt-leakage-probing) for more details about **Prompt Leakage Probing**.

Reviewer: Related work: https://ag2ai.github.io/ag2/blog/2024/03/11/AutoDefense/Defending%20LLMs%20Against%20Jailbreak%20Attacks%20with%20AutoDefense

One idea for future work is to use the same testing system to test the performance of LLM without protection vs. LLM with AutoDefense protection. The expected result is that the latter if safer. And the testing system can be used as an evaluator of different defense strategies.

#### Viewing the Results

The framework categorizes responses based on their sensitivity and highlights potential leakages in an easy-to-read report format. Here’s what a report might look like after a couple of test runs:

![Context leakage report](img/prompt_leakage_report.png)

### Project highlights

#### Agentic Design Patterns

The **Prompt Leakage Probing Framework** leverages key agentic design patterns from the [AG2 library](https://ag2ai.github.io/ag2/docs/tutorial), providing a robust and modular structure for its functionality. Below are the patterns and components used, along with relevant links for further exploration:

1. **Group Chat Pattern**
   - The chat between agents in this project is modeled on the [Group Chat Pattern](https://ag2ai.github.io/ag2/docs/tutorial/conversation-patterns#group-chat), where multiple agents collaboratively interact to perform tasks.
   - This structure allows for seamless coordination between agents like the prompt generator, classifier, and user proxy agent.

>    - The chat has a [custom speaker selection](https://ag2ai.github.io/ag2/docs/notebooks/agentchat_groupchat_customized) method implemented so that it guarantees the prompt->response->classification chat flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The chat has a [custom speaker selection](https://ag2ai.github.io/ag2/docs/topics/groupchat/customized_speaker_selection) method implemented so that it guarantees the prompt->response->classification chat flow.
```
Suggesting an alternative link in the documentation page.
